Hi guys and welcome back to the tutorial.
Finally this is the big moment.
We will start to build all on translator.
We have all the data that is ready to be used.
So let's get into it right now.
Keep in mind of the architecture of the transformer we have here this whole blob that is called the
encoder.
And here what is called the decoder.
Each one will use this multi had attentional civil layer.
We will have to build this one later.
But first we will focus on the very first parts of the model which is the embedding step and the positional
encoding.
Of course we will not write our own embedding because it already existing intense flow but we will create
a custom layer in order to process this positional encoding that they explained in the paper as a quick
reminder.
Here is where they explain how the positional encoding works.
Basically we use the sinus and the cosine is for each different position and each different dimension
of the embedding.
The position being the position of the words in the sentence.
So I wrote those two little formulas right here in our notebook and so I guess we are ready to start
calling this positional encoding layer so as we are creating a layer this will be a class that we will
call positional encoding and this will inherit from the layers
layer class
first thing we always have to do when we are creating a layer is to define the in its method which is
called.
Each time you create an object from this class and it will take as arguments self just like any other
method this is the layer that will only make mathematical computations.
So we will probably not need anything more as Parramatta because there will be no trainable weights
no sub players or anything of this kind in in the positional encoding phase.
So this init method will only call super positional
encoding self that's in its so what this line does is is that it calls the function of of the class
layer which has been perfectly well called the right here so that the object can be builds correctly
with all the features that any layer should have.
Now we will create another method that will perform those operations right here.
What are what is inside the sine ascending the cosine is functions so we will define let's say get angles
and the tendrils which again takes self pause I and the model as parameters and will want supposed to
be an array and same thing for I here.
Pause will be the array of all the positions of the inputs.
So in all case actually each will be all the intake goes from 0 to 19 and I will be another array of
all the possible dimensions of the embedding.
So let's just write the math we will say that angles are equal to 1 over and P that power ten thousand
dots because we wanted to be afloat and not in Antigua.
And the power he is two times I divided by two.
The reason why we do this is that the way this is written here is that we apply sign to all the even
numbers and cosine to all the odd numbers.
So in this formulae I doesn't represents the actual dimension.
This is two times I or two times I plus one that really represents the dimension.
This is just a convenient way to split the dimensions between the odd and even numbers.
Let's say we want to come from the angle for dimension 10 for instance.
This mean we want to refer to this line.
And that I hear will be equal to 5.
And so this is why here we will have two times 5.
So in all codes for the dimension 10 we get right.
He the number five by dividing 10 by two and for the dimension eleven as it is an odd number.
We have to refer to the second line right here and say that again is equal to 5.
And we get the exact same number as 10.
Because I will be equal to 5.
And here this is what happens because this is a division that gives us an integer at the end.
So all angles viable he will have each results twice one will be used to apply the sine function and
the other one will be used to apply the cosine function so that we get the positional encoding for all
the even and all the numbers.
So this was the reason why we divide AI by 2 keeping the integral parts of it.
Now that this is done we just have to divide this number by and Pete that floats 32 G model because
we want to consider this number as it floats and not an integer.
Otherwise the division might misbehave.
And finally we just return those times angle times angles while we want here is to have a matrix of
shape SEC length the model.
So this way we get exactly what we just want to add to our inputs in order to have a positional encoding
so that is why we are asking to get the position as a matrix of size seq length 1 and I as a matrix
of size 1 the model.
In that case the multiplication right here is a valid matrix multiplication will give us a matrix of
the right's shapes that we are looking for right here and now that we have this get angles method that
is ready we can create the call method which is the method that is used.
Each time you call the layer so as usual we need to add cell Frankie and of course the inputs of the
layer which will be used to compute the positional anchoring and we will of course return the inputs
plus the positional encoding so we will need to create the pose and the AI valuables and in order to
do that we will need to get the length of the sequences as well as the dimension of the embedding.
The way we will do this is just by calling seq length equals inputs that shape dots as least because
if you just type in the shape you will get a t f the shape tensor.
I think objects and you just can't have access to the dimensions as you can do with the lists are array.
Same thing for the dimension here.
So the model equals inputs that shape that as lists.
And this time is the last dimension and now we have all we need to build our pose and I parameters for
get angles.
So let's go get angles with the right parameters so angles equals stuff that gets angles and b that
range which is the best way to get all the numbers from zero to a given integer.
Here it's sic length and as we said before we wants this parameter to have those dimensions we don't
want it to just be a simple array we want to add a dimension which of course will be empty.
So the way we do that is that we call this array keeping everything with this column and we add a new
axis with NDP that new access.
It just creates another dimension which is empty but it's necessary if you want to multiply two mattresses
like we do at the end of the get angles method.
Now we can just do the same thing with the model.
So NDP does arrange the model but as we mentioned we don't want this to have its second dimension as
empty.
We wanted to add the first dimension as empty so that the multiplication works well at the end so this
is along the firsts axis that we want to add something and then we keep all the numbers.
And finally the last parameter that's I'll get angles function needs is the model.
Here we are we have everything we we need before completing the sine and the cosine functions.
So let's do it right now and let's say that angles for the even dimensions of the embedding.
So this is the best way to do that.
This means that we want to access all of the indices starting from zero to the end and the steps will
be two instead of one.
So this will get us the indices 0 2 4 and so on.
So only that even ones.
And so those ones let's apply the same function so end p that sine and goes to basically the same indices.
So here we just applied the same function to the angles corresponds to an even dimension as we see in
the formula.
And we just have to do the same thing with the cosine function for the other dimensions so angles this
time we start at 1.
But once again we wanted to make steps of size 2 in order to have access to all the to all the odd numbers
and B that costs.
And here it's the same thing and goes everything.
Start with 1 strides of 2.
Finally we have one more thing to do as intensive flow.
Everything works with batch.
We know that we will have one more dimension in our inputs which is the first one.
So we have to create an additional empty dimension by seeing that pose encoding equals angles that we
add this new axis.
And B the new axis and we keep everything else.
Sorry with three points.
This is the way to say that we keep everything.
And finally as this was a layer we receive the inputs and while we want to return all those inputs plus
the positional encoding So let's return inputs.
Plus as we can see all positional encoding on MP arrays.
We made all our operations with an MP so last thing we have to do is just to make them tenses that we
can add them to the inputs so inputs plus t edit costs those encoding and we'll make them floats with
t after float 32 and that's it s.
Here we are.
We have all positional encoding layer that is ready to be used.
Now get ready to work on the most important parts of the model which is the attention and mechanism
and see you soon.